In today's world, [agents](Glossary#agent) can be exceedingly represented by their presences across digital identity providers. Through social discovery, these agents can be located and authenticated, subsequently allowing for the secure sharing of [secrets](Glossary#secret) with desired entities.

[Digital identities](Glossary#digital-identity) contain a vast amount and variety of information, so much so that digital identities can go as far as to authenticate agents and allow them access to services and secrets (for example, using a Facebook account to log into other websites). This ability comes not only from a digital identity's documentation of factual information (such as an agent's name, age, and acquaintances), but also information about behavior.

Unlike factual information, behavioral information is hard to imitate. Because of this it can help to create a reliable representation of an agent that people are quite sensitive to. Social proof is a concept that taps into this idea: that the people around you will often collectively hold more information about the current environment or situation than yourself. If a large number of people believe that a digital identity is a reliable representation of a particular agent, then this may be sufficient evidence to believe that this is, indeed, true.

Polykey takes advantage of this idea through the use of Gestalts - a word that comes from the adage "the whole is more than the sum of its parts". The Gestalts implemented within Polykey combine the information that is contained within digital identities with the secrets held within the vaults of Keynodes such that the result is a full representation of an agent. It is composed of at least one Keynode, which can be connected via cryptolinks to other Keynodes and to digital identities, and acts as a point of presence between identities and agents.

Gestalts are created through a secure process of augmentation: by posting a signed claim on both an identity provider and the sigchain of a Keynode an identity can be augmented (a process involving the establishment of a cryptolink between the digital identity and Keynode). This claim is immutable once created, ensuring both the [authenticity](Glossary#authenticity) and [integrity](Glossary#integrity) of the augmentation, and shows that the specified Keynode has ownership over the augmented digital identity.

So how does one decide whether or not to trust a Gestalt? While trust can be based on any arbitrary qualification in theory, the quality and source of the information used to measure this qualification should meet certain acceptance criteria. Trust is a judgement made by qualifying the information that is provided, and it should never be given based on information that has been accepted at face value. To further complicate the establishment of trust it is important to consider that trust is not a binary choice; rather, it has multiple levels and considerations that must be made. Polykey simplifies this process by having all of the relevant information needed to make a judgement of trust contained within the Gestalts themselves in a way that guarantees the acceptance criteria of authenticity and integrity.

In the case of trusting a Gestalt, this involves trusting that it has not been compromised and remains representative of the agent it supposedly represents. The process of choosing to trust a Gestalt starts with trusting any one of the digital identities contained within it, and this trust is then subsequently extended to the rest of the Gestalt. Once a Gestalt is trusted then it is possible to share secret information with it (see [Secrets Management](secrets-management) for a detailed discussion of secret sharing), however this trust must extend both ways.

At the end of all of this architecture is the implementation of an overarching goal: to easily and securely manage the sharing of secrets with other agents. This is made possible through the process of social discovery implemented within Polykey. By searching for a particular agent using the software's interface it is possible to search through all of the digital identities owned by any Gestalt's Keynode. Once an identity is discovered its authenticity can be confirmed through social proof and its integrity is ensured by the augmentation process discussed above. Once one identity within a Gestalt has been discovered it is then possible to traverse the rest of the Gestalt graph to discover other identities under the control of the same entity such that more information is available upon which to make a judgement of trust. Social discovery thereby helps agents to be certain that the Gestalt they are sharing secrets with can be trusted, and that it is indeed representative of the entity that is presumed to have ownership of it.